README.md, before:

<img src="./itransformer.png" width="400px"></img>

## iTransformer

Implementation of <a href="https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.06625">iTransformer</a> - SOTA Time Series Forecasting using Attention networks, out of Tsinghua / Ant group

All that remains is tabular data (xgboost still champion here) before one can truly declare "Attention is all you need"

In before Apple gets the authors to change the name.

The official implementation has been released <a href="https://github.com/thuml/iTransformer">here</a>!

## Appreciation

- <a href="https://stability.ai/">StabilityAI</a> and <a href="https://huggingface.co/">🤗 Huggingface</a> for the generous sponsorship, as well as my other sponsors, for affording me the independence to open source current artificial intelligence techniques.

## Install

```bash
$ pip install iTransformer
```

## Usage

```python
import torch
from iTransformer import iTransformer

# using solar energy settings

model = iTransformer(
    num_variates = 137,
    lookback_len = 96,               # or the lookback length in the paper
    dim = 256,                       # model dimensions
    depth = 6,                       # depth
    heads = 8,                       # attention heads
    dim_head = 64,                   # head dimension
    pred_length = (12, 24, 36, 48),  # can be one prediction, or many
    num_tokens_per_variate = 1       # experimental setting that projects each variate to more than one token. the idea is that the network can learn to divide up into time tokens for more granular attention across time. thanks to flash attention, you should be able to accommodate long sequence lengths just fine
)

time_series = torch.randn(2, 96, 137)  # (batch, lookback len, variates)

preds = model(time_series)

# preds -> Dict[int, Tensor[batch, pred_length, variate]]
#       -> (12: (2, 12, 137), 24: (2, 24, 137), 36: (2, 36, 137), 48: (2, 48, 137))
```

## Todo

- [x] beef up the transformer with latest findings

- [ ] improvise a 2d version - either global pool across time at end, or use a CLS token for attention pooling

## Citation

```bibtex
@misc{liu2023itransformer,
  title   = {iTransformer: Inverted Transformers Are Effective for Time Series Forecasting}, 
  author  = {Yong Liu and Tengge Hu and Haoran Zhang and Haixu Wu and Shiyu Wang and Lintao Ma and Mingsheng Long},
  year    = {2023},
  eprint  = {2310.06625},
  archivePrefix = {arXiv},
  primaryClass = {cs.LG}
}
```

```bibtex
@misc{shazeer2020glu,
    title   = {GLU Variants Improve Transformer},
    author  = {Noam Shazeer},
    year    = {2020},
    url     = {https://arxiv.org/abs/2002.05202}
}
```

```bibtex
@misc{burtsev2020memory,
    title   = {Memory Transformer},
    author  = {Mikhail S. Burtsev and Grigory V. Sapunov},
    year    = {2020},
    eprint  = {2006.11527},
    archivePrefix = {arXiv},
    primaryClass = {cs.CL}
}
```

```bibtex
@inproceedings{Darcet2023VisionTN,
    title   = {Vision Transformers Need Registers},
    author  = {Timoth'ee Darcet and Maxime Oquab and Julien Mairal and Piotr Bojanowski},
    year    = {2023},
    url     = {https://api.semanticscholar.org/CorpusID:263134283}
}
```

```bibtex
@inproceedings{dao2022flashattention,
    title   = {Flash{A}ttention: Fast and Memory-Efficient Exact Attention with {IO}-Awareness},
    author  = {Dao, Tri and Fu, Daniel Y. and Ermon, Stefano and Rudra, Atri and R{\'e}, Christopher},
    booktitle = {Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems},
    year    = {2022}
}
```

```bibtex
@Article{AlphaFold2021,
    author  = {Jumper, John and Evans, Richard and Pritzel, Alexander and Green, Tim and Figurnov, Michael and Ronneberger, Olaf and Tunyasuvunakool, Kathryn and Bates, Russ and {\v{Z}}{\'\i}dek, Augustin and Potapenko, Anna and Bridgland, Alex and Meyer, Clemens and Kohl, Simon A A and Ballard, Andrew J and Cowie, Andrew and Romera-Paredes, Bernardino and Nikolov, Stanislav and Jain, Rishub and Adler, Jonas and Back, Trevor and Petersen, Stig and Reiman, David and Clancy, Ellen and Zielinski, Michal and Steinegger, Martin and Pacholska, Michalina and Berghammer, Tamas and Bodenstein, Sebastian and Silver, David and Vinyals, Oriol and Senior, Andrew W and Kavukcuoglu, Koray and Kohli, Pushmeet and Hassabis, Demis},
    journal = {Nature},
    title   = {Highly accurate protein structure prediction with {AlphaFold}},
    year    = {2021},
    doi     = {10.1038/s41586-021-03819-2},
    note    = {(Accelerated article preview)},
}
```

Commit message:

address https://github.com/lucidrains/iTransformer/issues/6, last commit for the repo given official code is out

README.md, after:

<img src="./itransformer.png" width="400px"></img>

## iTransformer

Implementation of <a href="https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.06625">iTransformer</a> - SOTA Time Series Forecasting using Attention networks, out of Tsinghua / Ant group

All that remains is tabular data (xgboost still champion here) before one can truly declare "Attention is all you need"

In before Apple gets the authors to change the name.

The official implementation has been released <a href="https://github.com/thuml/iTransformer">here</a>!

## Appreciation

- <a href="https://stability.ai/">StabilityAI</a> and <a href="https://huggingface.co/">🤗 Huggingface</a> for the generous sponsorship, as well as my other sponsors, for affording me the independence to open source current artificial intelligence techniques.

## Install

```bash
$ pip install iTransformer
```

## Usage

```python
import torch
from iTransformer import iTransformer

# using solar energy settings

model = iTransformer(
    num_variates = 137,
    lookback_len = 96,                  # or the lookback length in the paper
    dim = 256,                          # model dimensions
    depth = 6,                          # depth
    heads = 8,                          # attention heads
    dim_head = 64,                      # head dimension
    pred_length = (12, 24, 36, 48),     # can be one prediction, or many
    num_tokens_per_variate = 1,         # experimental setting that projects each variate to more than one token. the idea is that the network can learn to divide up into time tokens for more granular attention across time. thanks to flash attention, you should be able to accommodate long sequence lengths just fine
    use_reversible_instance_norm = True # use reversible instance normalization, proposed here https://openreview.net/forum?id=cGDAkQo1C0p . may be redundant given the layernorms within iTransformer (and whatever else attention learns emergently on the first layer, prior to the first layernorm). if i come across some time, i'll gather up all the statistics across variates, project them, and condition the transformer a bit further. that makes more sense
)

time_series = torch.randn(2, 96, 137)  # (batch, lookback len, variates)

preds = model(time_series)

# preds -> Dict[int, Tensor[batch, pred_length, variate]]
#       -> (12: (2, 12, 137), 24: (2, 24, 137), 36: (2, 36, 137), 48: (2, 48, 137))
```

## Todo

- [x] beef up the transformer with latest findings

- [ ] improvise a 2d version - either global pool across time at end, or use a CLS token for attention pooling

## Citation

```bibtex
@misc{liu2023itransformer,
  title   = {iTransformer: Inverted Transformers Are Effective for Time Series Forecasting}, 
  author  = {Yong Liu and Tengge Hu and Haoran Zhang and Haixu Wu and Shiyu Wang and Lintao Ma and Mingsheng Long},
  year    = {2023},
  eprint  = {2310.06625},
  archivePrefix = {arXiv},
  primaryClass = {cs.LG}
}
```

```bibtex
@misc{shazeer2020glu,
    title   = {GLU Variants Improve Transformer},
    author  = {Noam Shazeer},
    year    = {2020},
    url     = {https://arxiv.org/abs/2002.05202}
}
```

```bibtex
@misc{burtsev2020memory,
    title   = {Memory Transformer},
    author  = {Mikhail S. Burtsev and Grigory V. Sapunov},
    year    = {2020},
    eprint  = {2006.11527},
    archivePrefix = {arXiv},
    primaryClass = {cs.CL}
}
```

```bibtex
@inproceedings{Darcet2023VisionTN,
    title   = {Vision Transformers Need Registers},
    author  = {Timoth'ee Darcet and Maxime Oquab and Julien Mairal and Piotr Bojanowski},
    year    = {2023},
    url     = {https://api.semanticscholar.org/CorpusID:263134283}
}
```

```bibtex
@inproceedings{dao2022flashattention,
    title   = {Flash{A}ttention: Fast and Memory-Efficient Exact Attention with {IO}-Awareness},
    author  = {Dao, Tri and Fu, Daniel Y. and Ermon, Stefano and Rudra, Atri and R{\'e}, Christopher},
    booktitle = {Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems},
    year    = {2022}
}
```

```bibtex
@Article{AlphaFold2021,
    author  = {Jumper, John and Evans, Richard and Pritzel, Alexander and Green, Tim and Figurnov, Michael and Ronneberger, Olaf and Tunyasuvunakool, Kathryn and Bates, Russ and {\v{Z}}{\'\i}dek, Augustin and Potapenko, Anna and Bridgland, Alex and Meyer, Clemens and Kohl, Simon A A and Ballard, Andrew J and Cowie, Andrew and Romera-Paredes, Bernardino and Nikolov, Stanislav and Jain, Rishub and Adler, Jonas and Back, Trevor and Petersen, Stig and Reiman, David and Clancy, Ellen and Zielinski, Michal and Steinegger, Martin and Pacholska, Michalina and Berghammer, Tamas and Bodenstein, Sebastian and Silver, David and Vinyals, Oriol and Senior, Andrew W and Kavukcuoglu, Koray and Kohli, Pushmeet and Hassabis, Demis},
    journal = {Nature},
    title   = {Highly accurate protein structure prediction with {AlphaFold}},
    year    = {2021},
    doi     = {10.1038/s41586-021-03819-2},
    note    = {(Accelerated article preview)},
}
```

```bibtex
@inproceedings{kim2022reversible,
    title   = {Reversible Instance Normalization for Accurate Time-Series Forecasting against Distribution Shift},
    author  = {Taesung Kim and Jinhee Kim and Yunwon Tae and Cheonbok Park and Jang-Ho Choi and Jaegul Choo},
    booktitle = {International Conference on Learning Representations},
    year    = {2022},
    url     = {https://openreview.net/forum?id=cGDAkQo1C0p}
}
```
